I'm seeing a lot of people complaining about Twitter Bootstrap; the brunt of the complaint is that "So many sites are looking identical to each other." 

I'd point out, that before bootstrap, in fact before Web 2.0, a lot of people complained that so many sites looked unique - and, in fact, unique and terrible. 

Twitter Bootstrap was not created to enforce a uniform look on the web; in fact, there is a built-in generator for Twitter Bootstrap that allows you to burn a new edition with its own style and color. Further, the whole point of CSS is that the architecture is mixable -- you can overlay your own style on top of twitter bootstrap. In point of fact, this is a Twitter Bootstrap site -- to which I have added a significant style overlay, and not a very deep one. 

Twitter Bootstrap allows non-designers to have a default, professional look and feel out of the box. It does not enforce conformity, but it does allow it. Visual convention is not by definition a bad thing. Form elements, for instance, have thrived because they are identifiable and easily usable across a wide set of content. And in fact, while it is good for content to be visually unique, it is not necessarily something that determines a sites' success and failure. I have yet to see anyone draw irrefutable causal connections between good design and a site's success. There is correlation -- if a site succeeds, there is money in the budget for more frequent reskins -- but many sites such as Craigs List have thrived without any significant investment in design at all. The style mechanisms we take for granted did not even exist until well after the internet became entrenched as a cultural medium, and I posit that even were they not a part of the modern Internet, the Internet would still be a driving force in modern culture. 

Lets take a look at the status quo that existed before Twitter Bootstrap came along: jQuery UI. Jquery UI is a mess; it is very difficult to customize, very incomplete and heavy as hell. It thrived in a vacuum, proof in case, it was almost instantly obliterated when Bootstrap came on the scene. 

Twitter Bootstrap never claimed to be a full stop in the development of a site, though in practice it often is. In fact, most of Twitter Bootstrap is "Opt In" and only kicks in when you actively annotate tags with Bootstrap hooks. Forms, tables and buttons, when used without twitter class hooks, will present in Twitter Bootstrap with virtually no visual changes at all. 

So if you are avoiding Twitter bootstrap because you fear your site will end up looking stock and cookie cutter, remember that the framework itself does not determine the look and feel of your site: you do, and with or without Bootstrap, the responsibility of creating a unique look and feel for your web presence is on your hands.